docs(ipv6 support): add documentation for ipv6 cluster support (#3977)
SumoLogic/sumologic-kubernetes-collection: docs/ipv6.md

Adjust VPC-CNI configuration:

```bash
aws eks update-addon \
  --cluster-name <your-cluster> \
  --addon-name vpc-cni \
  --configuration-values '{
    "env": {
      "ENABLE_IPv6": "true",
      "ENABLE_PREFIX_DELEGATION": "true",
      "WARM_PREFIX_TARGET": "1"
    }
  }'
```

For more information and different methods to update plugin settings, please refer
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/updating-an-add-on.html

### 2. Ensure that a NAT Gateway/Internet gateway is provisioned to reach public ipv4 endpoints

##### 2.1. If your worker nodes are in public subnet and you are using AWS VPC-CNI, then please make sure ipv4 external route is added.

Make sure that the subnet’s Route table has a route from IPv4(local) to Internet gateway. This is to ensure that ipv4 traffic from your cluster can reach internet.
Ex. 0.0.0.0/0→igw-XXX (Internet Gateway)

```bash
aws ec2 create-route \
    --route-table-id rtb-xxxxxxxx \
    --destination-cidr-block 0.0.0.0/0 \
    --gateway-id igw-xxxxxxxx
```

For more information and different methods to add route, please refer
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/create-vpc-route-table.html#AddRoutes

> #### 2.2. If your worker nodes are in private subnet or you are not using AWS VPC-CNIusing custom CNI like celium, then please ensure you have provisioned a NAT gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 2.2. If your EKS worker nodes are in private subnet (recommended by AWS) or you are not using AWS VPC-CNI using a custom CNI like Cilium, then please ensure you have provisioned a NAT gateway.
```

# IPV6 Support

Supports EKS IPv6 clusters and any other k8’s cluster type which has IPv6(Cluster)-to-IPv4(Internet) Egress communication enabled.

When running an IPv6-only Kubernetes cluster, pods may still need to access external IPv4 endpoints (e.g., APIs, package repositories, Github which are ipv4 only). This requires configuring the CNI and VPC  to support IPv6-to-IPv4 egress. If your cluster already has this capability, please skip this and proceed with deploying sumologic helm chart.

## Pre-requisites for EKS Cluster
Both VPC-CNI plugin and NAT gateways provide IPv6-to-IPv4 communication. Please choose accordinly based on your cluster setup/preference.

### 1. If you are using EKS's inbuilt VPC-CNI as the CNI plugin, then please ensure below

#### 1.1. Ensure Amazon VPC CNI plugin v1.10.1 or later is deployed in cluster

IP prefix delegation and ENABLE_IPv6 settings must be enabled. If you already deployed VPC-CNI Plugin while creating the cluster, these will
be enabled automatically. If you adding the plugin to an existing cluster, please add the plugin and ensure these settings are enabled.

> Create VPC-CNI addon:

Author: Agreed, we can remove VPC creation step and could ask customer to only ensure the required settings "IP prefix delegation and ENABLE_IPv6 settings" are configured properly as these settings will not be enabled automatically if customer adds the plugin after cluster creation.

```bash
aws eks create-addon --cluster-name my-cluster --addon-name vpc-cni --addon-version v1.20.0-eksbuild.1 \
--service-account-role-arn arn:aws:iam::111122223333:role/AmazonEKSVPCCNIRole
```

For more information and different methods to create the plugin, please refer:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/vpc-add-on-create.html

> Adjust VPC-CNI configuration:

Author: If customer added VPC plugin at the time of ipv6 cluster creation, all settings related to ipv6 are enabled by default in the plugin. But if customer have added the plugin after cluster creation, these settings needs to be adjusted. We have mentioned the same [here](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-kubernetes-collection/pull/3977/files#diff-ba9b3951a5956673563806d35a3fccac724ff26e3d2e69a7fd72364e91b97683R14)

Create VPC-CNI addon:

```bash
aws eks create-addon --cluster-name my-cluster --addon-name vpc-cni --addon-version v1.20.0-eksbuild.1 \
--service-account-role-arn arn:aws:iam::111122223333:role/AmazonEKSVPCCNIRole
```

For more information and different methods to create the plugin, please refer:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/vpc-add-on-create.html

Adjust VPC-CNI configuration:

```bash
aws eks update-addon \
  --cluster-name <your-cluster> \
  --addon-name vpc-cni \
  --configuration-values '{
    "env": {
      "ENABLE_IPv6": "true",
      "ENABLE_PREFIX_DELEGATION": "true",
      "WARM_PREFIX_TARGET": "1"
    }
  }'
```

For more information and different methods to update plugin settings, please refer
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/updating-an-add-on.html

### 2. Route table with ipv4 external route

Make sure that VPC’s Route table has a route from IPv4(local) to Internet gateway. Ex. 0.0.0.0/0→igw-XXX (Internet Gateway)

```bash
aws ec2 create-route \
    --route-table-id rtb-xxxxxxxx \
    --destination-cidr-block 0.0.0.0/0 \

>     --gateway-id igw-xxxxxxxx

Author: <img width="1044" height="440" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-25 at 9 38 25 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/49f6398c-450a-49e6-9de0-3119a520745b" />

We need DNS64 and NAT64 for standalone EC2 resources, but not for an EKS cluster as it handles it automatically using the CNI plugin which is also mentioned in EKS documentation and we have confirmed the same in our local EKS testing.
EKS doc--> https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/cni-ipv6.html#_ip_address_assignments
This built-in NAT capability eliminates the need for [DNS64 and NAT64](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat-gateway.html#nat-gateway-nat64-dns64).

>     --gateway-id igw-xxxxxxxx

Reviewer 2: @jagan2221 , is this true for Azure and GCP as well?

>     --gateway-id igw-xxxxxxxx

Reviewer 2: Sure @fguimond, we can check that. Thanks @jagan2221 for the details. We can create separate items for AKS and GCP
